am I looking manly with the built-in
does this make me look a little bit
tough are you ready officer I'm like no
I was recording that very good thing
what bench-pressing
today and when I say we I mean mainly
gonna be race his Aires he's gonna be
competing in how long how many weeks out
of 8 8 weeks can be dogs and what's your
goal today so last week was 227 and a
half the doubles five sets of two four
sets of two so to be better than that
that's the plan and I'm gonna bench with
him I'm nowhere near the same level of
competition preppers him so I'm not
gonna be lifting anywhere near close so
we're going to use two different benches
something I like about the gym now we've
got one bench here and one bench bench
press the race is going to be competing
with so he has to use that I'm not
competing I actually prefer this as well
so it kind of suits us not to have to
change weights back and forth we're
gonna have race is going to be the
strong one today so let's do this
serious what are you what are you gonna
be working up to today for bench good
put everything on from the start like
you know some people like to use
equipment when they need it so they
start with nothing on and then they
gradually put the obvious leaves on as
the weight starts getting heavier with
me if I'm going to be using this
equipment for my top set I want it for
my first set just so that I'm familiar
with the feeling it doesn't make a huge
difference it's more about comfort and
once I'm Way of season I'm competing I
don't even know the dailies it's
September what are we 10 I think it's
the 10th of September and it is and I'm
competing in March mid-march 2020 so
working with
five months away
plenty of time built as well I really
don't need this I'm just going to rest
it here just loosely I'll probably put
it on when I start my first set yeah so
my equipment goes on pretty much from
the first set you preferred the belts
with their levers or the prongs now this
belt I love this is the this is a prong
this is called pioneer cutting so most
of these prong built the spacings are
one inch apart
these ones are they're kind of in a
zigzag pattern they're half an inch
apart which means the holes are closer
to each other so it could be more
precise with exactly how tight I want
the belt when I'm doing my top sets I
prefer a leap up because when I go as
tight as possible it's really hard to
like get it every single time
yeah so I have to suck my guts in and
really strain front you just too much
energy
there's too much energy so so when I'm
competing I'll usually just use my lever
belt I just put it on and clip it in
that's what little Ricci has to say that
I love my equipment and the beautiful
thing about these things is they just
last forever so it's a good investment
what's on the back any any specific
artwork on the back or this drinks this
do embroidery on all of the belts nice
I've got one that says strange in coach
I've got another one that says strong
mother if you see star hash guitar let's
go
keep on it as well as a whole bunch of
other stuff to just get my shoulders
[Music]
when I actually start putting weight on
I'll try and move it the same speed as
my top weights perfect practice makes
perfect but that way it's pretty hard to
not move faster 20 kilograms that's high
like 10% what I'm doing man this is cool
like this is the first time I've been
Ching here I don't get the same love my
side back in our first gym North Sydney
it was just a white wall and people
would come in through our gym and and
look at the white wall and they used to
say that's so you know the white wall of
base gym yeah I'll tell you what I like
to do I like to Train my opposing
muscles so warm up my opposing muscles
so I like lat pull-downs for that a few
little light and ciliary exercises ones
that are going to warm my rotator cuff
muscles and muscles that stabilize my
shoulder blade so shoulder blade
position is really important for the
bench press technique come check it out
but I've just found that when I start
focusing on warming up taking my time
and doing the the fluffy stuff I call it
that a lot of people don't really think
about
a lot of people don't really think about
I think it's a little bit too soft my
shoulders end up feeling a lot better so
when I do these exercises before I train
I don't do it to fatigue stimulate not
annihilate so much we pull downs as well
pretty light way we're doing we're not
trying to build blacks here we're trying
to warm up the muscles warm up the
shoulders something that I like about a
lat pulldown do these look at his
shoulder blades he's focusing on
squeezing the shoulder blades back and
down towards his back pockets squeeze
him back and down so pause with the bar
on your chest raise pause with on your
chest that is the position okay relax
but I'm working towards and Reese will
be working towards holding in the bench
press for the whole set so when you see
as bench pressing that's the position
that we're getting in the bottom
position of a lat pulldown which is why
I love to pair a lat pulldown for the
warm-ups for the bench press
so even while you're warming up let's
say with sixty kilos you still clipped
away okay so that's that's the ruling
based um you gotta always clip it
differences with this bench compared to
their both competition this is a leaker
this is very thin padding come and have
a look at this this little lip here it's
it's very small this lip okay so it's a
different feel on your back and this lip
is a lot bigger so when he sets up those
are the little things that we play
around with to make a difference if you
practice your whole comp prep with
something that's not going to be used in
competition I can throw you off a little
bit so I personally don't prefer this
bench which one do you prefer
Joyce right now because yeah competition
is this that's what it is
[Music]
my weight 140 grams easy weight
everything that you see here in terms of
the weights that were using and the
barbells it's all calibrated it's what
you see in competition
so definitely calibrated so that the
brand is a leak hope for these plates
this here is what you see in this
Federation here so that red sticker on
the bar that means I peer for proof
that's that's probably the most well
known powerlifting Federation in the
world and same with these plates over
here these a little bit different the
bumper plates bumper plates are used for
weightlifting that some people refer to
as Olympic lifting but technically it's
called weightlifting and those are the
exact plates that you see in the
Olympics so we've got to at the moment
sad to say stronger either of them are
stronger than each other in absolute
terms we got the animal kid he's 95
kilos snatch yesterday he claims 211
kilograms we've got another lifter who
doesn't lift as much weight but he's
actually technically he's a better
weightlifter
he's not as strong but he's been in the
Olympics so 2016 Olympics that's sunny
web stuff so those are two guys that are
going to be using that platform a lot
it's pretty cool to watch it's very
different to what we do they're not
moving as much weight but they're
throwing those weights overhead which is
a lot harder than what we're doing
same technique every time
so something that powerlifters have to
contend with is a thing called penis
elbow Cerises Tommy he's a bit penis see
what he means by that is his arms are
soft power lifters that use a low bar
squad which is most most tower lifters
put their arms in such a position that
they're supporting a lot of the weight
with their arms and it hurts the elbows
in time so you get away with it for a
few weeks but then when you get towards
the heavy end the elbows really hurt and
then you feel it on benchpress day
because that's when you're really
loading around and a lot of people
mistake that for the bench press hurts
the elbows but it's not it's a squat
injury it's just something that we have
to deal with
another 25 kilo jump so that's I might
do one reps but it's not going to be a
one rep max for a while so some people
ask you know about you know is it
ineffective to train with one-hour ends
frequently by definition that's one rep
max that means you're maxing out if you
do that frequently yes too demanding for
the joints to handle but you can perform
heavy singles that are submaximal and
that's how we like to Train as well so I
may do singles that are probably about
95% of my max 90 to 95 percent of my max
to teach my body how to lift a single
it's a skill so what I mean by that is
most people they train in the gym
they'll do five reps to eight reps or to
12 reps or something like that
that doesn't necessarily carry over to
you being able to perform a heavy one
rep max the way that the heavyweights
feel like a hundred percent maximum
feels in your hands can change your
technique a lot so you have to teach
your body how to continue with the same
technique that you're using for the high
reps and not that the heavy weight take
you out of position so
I will be performing singles I will be
going heavy but technically I won't be
maxing out if that makes sense so Rhys
has 200 kilos on the bar as the weight
gets heavier the rest period increases
how long are you resting between says
really heavy so his muscles are ready
but his nervous system may not be so if
he rushes it a lot of people freak out
when you here 8 minutes
aren't you going to cool down in 8
minutes not me either so
but with this lightweight opposed to
give myself 8 minutes maybe I would cool
down so for me going from 120 to 145
I'll give myself about 4 minutes so I'll
go before him I can do 2 sets in the
time he takes to do one but then as I
get heavier I'm gonna do the same as
great so I'll take probably
[Music]
200 kilograms
it's a funny thing
that 200 kilograms looks that fast but
he's still not confident to celebrate
yet because what he wants to live today
200 kilograms kind of has to look fast
so he can probably get a feeling around
now as to whether it's gonna be a good
day or not the way that moved I think
he's moving well what do you think
yeah it looks better than it feels but
it always that moves really well
his goal today was to get 232 kilograms
for two reps maybe 3 3 232 for 3 would
be a PB is that correct a big PB which
in Australia stands for personal best or
peanut butter America they say PR PR are
[Music]
boom something that I like doing a lot
is working out to a top set and then
doing back down work so the top set yeah
that wasn't maxing out either which was
to my surprise so something that I just
said the start of the session was we
don't like to go to a hundred percent
sometimes we make stupid errors like
this is when I have nothing really
planned but I kind of just wanted to hit
that number 200 kilograms for two and I
was prepared to make that be a mess so
what I mean by that is if that ended up
grinding out and I got it and it was
like no more left in the tank some
people call that an RP eight ten which
means 10 out of 10 effort I still would
have been happy but I don't like to do
that that often so I'd say that was not
maxing out completely I had a little bit
more in the tank which was nice but we
take those gains and we run I don't need
to beat myself up set after set with
these weights that takes a lot of energy
and that also in my experience was
working with these numbers it's a high
risk of injury so we use the best
techniques that we know to avoid injury
to lift the heaviest weights possible as
efficiently as efficiently and as safely
as possible so although we're trying to
avoid injury by using our techniques
sometimes the weights just heavy and
injuries just happen
so to avoid that I'm gonna strip the way
what percentage I don't know I don't
work with percentages I work with round
numbers a cool number from here I don't
know maybe I'll just strip all the ugly
stuff off the side and just stick to the
three Reds and the silver collar so
still looks pretty so that'll be 175
kilograms I don't know that's my working
weight I might do sets of five from then
probably it's a good rationale what do
you think 175 3x5 sounds good
sounds good to me what do you think
Gracie
[Music]
it was that much aggression you see that
hanging his wife were noticing my
masculinity I'm thanking him for
noticing my masculinity thank you for
recording my video thank you for
recording recently
noticing my masculinity
you know no injuries it's a good day so
as I said we try and avoid these things
as much as possible but when you're
lifting like weights like that it's a
higher risk of injury
so no picture just work with you so that
was 18 months ago since then no picture
that's a really nice thing right so we
don't want to jinx that stop talking
about
alright so that was our benchpress
session we did three or four tops
recently three sets I did four top sets
that's on paper it doesn't really look
like it's a lot of sets so if people
were to copy that program it's probably
not a huge amount and it's probably not
enough total volume to make you stronger
but at the weights that especially the
race was lifting that's plenty of volume
and if you do much more volume than that
much more sets than that we increase the
risk of injury so there's a whole bunch
of opposing muscle groups we've done a
whole bunch of probably three sets of
lap pull down three sets of rows and
then probably three more sets of rotator
cuff exercises so it's a lot more total
volume on the opposing muscles then the
prime movers
but that's our benchpress session it was
a really successful session for both of
us for me it wasn't my strongest but I
hit 200 kilograms for two which I'm
really happy about that was my first
session our first benchpress session at
base gym and little racy EP bait on two
hundred thirty two and a half kilograms
for three ribs so that's that's a really
big session for race we're happy thanks
for tuning in guys
see ya
[Music]